UIST 2014 Papers

Reviews of submission #2320: "A Series of Tubes: Adding Interactivity to
3D Prints Using Internal Pipes"

------------------------ Submission 2320, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary and Contribution

   This paper introduces an interactive design tool that allows users to
   insert pipes into 3D objects. The paper starts with analyzing the design
   space of internal pipes, and then presents two approaches for routing
   pipes. The first approach allows to specify anchor points, and a physical
   simulation is  used to achieve a smooth routing and ensures that pipes do
   not intersect with each other or the surface. The second approach allows
   to import a potentially disconnected path as an SVG graphics, and a
   graph-based algorithm generates a single, connected path. The proposed
   approaches are implemented in MeshMixer, a freely available 3D modeling
   tool.

   The paper presents a large number of applications, where this basic
   technique is useful to help a designer adding interactivity to 3D printed
   objects, such as touch sensitive toys where pipes allow to embed
   conductive ink, a custom radio where pipes are used to embed electronics,
   a neon sign where pipes are used to route an electroluminescent wire, and
   several more. 

The Combined Personal and Meta Review (Primary)

   I enjoyed reading this paper. It addresses a relevant problem, 3D routing
   of pipes with desired properties such as minimal bending is definitely
   non-trivial. Furthermore, it nicely demonstrates a large number of
   application areas, where this approach can be useful to add additional
   functionality and interactivity to 3D printed objects. There are no big
   surprises on the algorithmic level how the routing problem is  solved.
   The paper handles multiple pipes in a greedy fashion, instead of looking
   at a globally optimal solution, individual paths are computed
   sequentially. This might lead to a sub-optimal solution, but this is the
   first paper I am aware of that addresses this problem. I believe it will
   inspire future research, both on the application side, but also on the
   core problem (design tools and optimization algorithms for pipe-routing)
   itself. Therefore, I think this paper should be accepted.

   Summarizing the external reviews, all reviewers think that this paper
   investigates an interesting problem. As R1 points out, there is
   definitely a need for a 3D pipe-routing package on meshes. Overall,
   reviewers agree that the paper is well written, and appreciate the large
   number of validation examples.

   Major concerns raised by the reviewers are:

   - The claimed contributions have to be formulated more carefully. As R1
   and R2 point out, prior work already uses pipes to route light, wires, or
   other materials.

   - R1 is concerned that the algorithm only tackles a relatively simple
   subset of the routing problem that could easily done by hand. There is no
   solution / optimization algorithm proposed for "true" 3D pipe-routing
   with multiple pipes. The complexity of the pipe routes shown in the
   examples are not very impressive. Also, R2 would like to have seen more
   sophisticated routing and path optimization.

   - The discussion about support material issues should be more concise.
   (R1, R2)

   - Figure 12 / Figure 13 and the section on speculative explorations do
   not add much to the paper. It is unclear how the proposed algorithm
   actually really helps for example designing a Helmholtz resonator. Maybe
   the paper would be stronger without this section?


Final Decision



------------------------ Submission 2320, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary and Contribution

   The contributions of this work are threefold:
   - Introducing a general technique for using pipes for interaction in 3D
   printouts.
   - Describing the design space of pipes (open pipes, closed pipes, media
   in pipes, etc).
   - A routing package, PipeDream, for attaching pipes and importing 2D
   internal pipes.

   The work was well-validated on several 3D printed examples.


The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   The paper is well-written, well-organized, and the examples varied and
   professionally done.

   Despite the topical nature of the work, and the clever, playful examples,
   I feel that the contribution of this work is overstated.

   The paper's first contribution is to "suggest that 3D printed interactive
   devices can be created with redirection of active input and output via
   pipes." This is obvious. Everyone working with 3D printing is creating
   channels to route light, wires, conductive paint, etc. Whether they call
   them "pipes" or something else, this is already an active area of work.

   The paper's second contribution is to describe the design space of pipes.
   Figure 2 presents a nice organization of the space, but the space itself
   is fairly simple.

   The third contribution is a pipe-routing package. There is definitely a
   need for a 3D pipe-routing package on meshes, as more and more people are
   threading various media through 3D prints. However, the solution
   presented leaves much to be desired:
   * The routing is not true 3D routing optimization. Pipe insertion is
   serial instead of a global optimization. I don't see serial insertion as
   a very hard problem; you could do this manually. The global optimization
   is where computers could really help humans out in the next generation of
   3D printing software.
   * With respect to path-constrained pipes, again, the algorithm is
   effectively 2-dimensional. The 3-dimensional part, overlapping paths,
   would be a more sophisticated contribution. 
   * With mesh modification, you do not do direct mesh booleans. The problem
   is a hard one, but, if you are creating real software, it needs to be
   done. Discretizing produces artifacts and is unscalable to the huge 3D
   printing jobs we are seeing even now; meshes will only continue to grow
   in complexity, and printers in resolution.

   I think PipeDream is a great idea, and I hope the authors will continue
   working on it until it does do true optimal 3D routing, and can provably
   advance 3D modeling/printing capabilities.

   With the current constraints on PipeDream, however, the examples shown in
   Figure 10 have simple routing that could be done in a CAD software
   manually without much difficulty. Although the examples are bewitchingly
   cool, they are straightforward use of previous work or simple hacking,
   and do not prove that the software lets you do something new. Can you
   show a more complex example?

   Page 10 is a discussion of existing fabrication techniques and
   limitations. This page does not contribute to the paper.

   Speculative Objects and Explorations: These examples show the usefulness
   of pipes; however, you seem to be laying claim to fairly straightforward
   ideas. An accurate whistle is created using 3D modeling - yes, it's
   hollow, so technically it has a pipe; but showing a 3D printed model of a
   whistle (from Thingiverse?) gives the impression that you have
   contributed to this field. The resistor idea emerges naturally from
   conductive paint. The liquid is a nice idea for a science exhibit - but
   does this idea already exist made out of standard construction
   techniques? If so, a 3D printed version is straightforward. Acoustic
   sensing is a cool idea because it makes use of the unique potentials of
   3D printing.

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)



------------------------ Submission 2320, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary and Contribution

   This paper describes a system for generating geometric elements to form
   tubes within the interior of 3D printed objects.  It considers algorithms
   for routing a couple of different forms of tubes (differentiated by the
   constraints placed on them, e.g., just the end points vs. on the path
   itself).  The paper then goes on to illustrate a number of uses of tubes,
   primarily for sensing.  For example, conductive paint can be poured down
   them to form internal conductors (possibly attaching to interior
   components).  Validation is provided by illustrating the breadth of uses
   of the results (which I believe to be the right kind of validation for
   this type of work). 

The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   While the generation of tube geometry which is the result of the work
   presented here seems (and I guess really is) a bit mundane, I think this
   result is actually quite interesting.  I think that’s the case because
   a) as the paper illustrates, there’s a bit more to tube geometry than
   would appear on the surface (i.e., the need in some instances to try to
   minimize curvature to allow “threading”), b) there aren’t to my
   knowledge really any tools to help with this and c) as the paper
   illustrates, there are a surprising number of interesting and highly
   functional uses for simple tubes within 3D printed objects.  

   The paper does a good job of describing the capabilities of the system,
   surveying the criteria across which tubes vary (openings, types of
   constraints, types of material to be supported in the tube, tube
   topology), and describing how the requirements differ across these.  It
   also spells out how the system is implemented pretty well, covering the
   details of the necessary algorithms deeply enough that one could
   replicate this.  I was also happy with the validation done here.  It
   illustrates the breadth of applicability of the techniques.  (And I was
   happy to NOT see a user study here – I don’t think the usability of
   the techniques provided here are in question (the abstractions provided
   to the user end up very simple) so a user study would be wasting
   everyone’s time and show us very little).

   My qualms with the paper are comparatively small.  Top on the list is
   that I would have liked to see several things on the “future work”
   list actually done – most notably some of the more sophisticated
   routing and path optimization.  Beyond that, I think the issues with
   support material removal are being minimized a little more than they
   really should be.  My own experience is that you just can’t do it on
   Connex machines (and the stock software makes it very hard to even turn
   the support off), there are obvious serious difficulties on hobby grade
   FDM machines without a separate material (as in you really have to have
   geometry that doesn’t need support), and even for professional FDM
   machines with dissolvable support , you would need days if not weeks to
   get the support out of a small tube with curves (e.g., Figure 10 E if you
   didn’t slice it).  Only with photopolymer SLA and sintered powder do I
   think there is a suitable solution for this.  This is not a show stopper
   for me, more of a judgment call.  All of the issues are discussed.  But
   my own feeling is that the paper would be slightly stronger if it made
   the practical difficulties more plain for those who follow after.

   Overall I like this paper.  I’m a little torn between a “4” and a
   “5”.  I would give it a “4.5” if that was possible.  

   Detailed Comments:

   p1 "a novel technique involving removing material from the interior of 3D
   models, prior to printing, to create pipes and other cavities."  It
   doesn't seem like modeling pipes and cavities, or more general "removing
   material" is really new.  Isn't this more about more interesting issues:
   like path planning and providing high level functionality for this sort
   of thing to the user / modeler (and maybe a bit about what kinds of fun
   things you can do with tubes)?

   "This subtractive approach is complementary to additive approaches " 
   This is not a big deal, but it seems like this is bending the typical
   meaning of these words a bit.  They are normally referring to how
   material is manipulated during manufacture (not during design).  You are
   still of course using a fully additive process for material deposition. 
   I bring this up at all because in the normal usage "subtractive" implies
   a set of limits of possible geometries which in fact are not limits on
   your technique.   But as I say, it's a small thing and it's your call as
   to whether you really want to stretch the words this way.  

   p2 "Printed Optics [26] uses"  This seems a bit redundant with the
   material in the second paragraph of the paper.  Seems like maybe you'd be
   happier just having related work here?

   p3 "… haptics via Jamming [3]."  It's not really clear that you are
   providing sufficient capability to implement jamming.  Seems like you
   need a flexible sheath rather than a rigid pipe wall to do that.  But
   simple routing of pneumatics seems like it's useful in this regard.

   p6 "The removal process can be time-intensive and challenging."  I think
   that's a bit of an understatement.  In the work I've done with printed
   tubes (primarily pneumatic) I've always found support issues to be the
   biggest problem in the designs.

   "although cylinders (e.g., pipes) and spheres violate this in some places
   they can be printed support-free. "  For FDM it seems like this statement
   should be a bit more equivocal.  In particular, your ability to
   successfully print e.g., a horizontally oriented cylinder depends on the
   diameter of the cylinder.   Smaller cylinders tend to work just fine, but
   large ones will fail.   In the end it is a question of how many layers at
   the top of the cylinder fall between > ~45deg overhang and the point
   where you can bridge across the top, and how badly those overhang.  On
   the other hand there is a pretty straightforward solution to this by
   changing the geometry from a circular cylinder to a "teardrop" (see:
   e.g., http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:122032 or
   http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3457).

   "On polyjet machines"  Here again I think the reality is a little harsher
   than you are really letting on, at least for the support in Connex
   machines.  As you say water blasting is not practical and their support
   material is not all that soluble in lye.  My experience is that there
   really isn't any practical way to remove support from small interior
   tubes with bends and that you in the end have to slice the models to get
   the tube more exposed (as you allude to here and indicate was used for
   your maze example later).  But I think this paragraph leaves the reader
   with a bit rosier picture than that.  (Although this is addressed again
   in the limitations section.)

   p7 "ROB-10398"  You should probably indicate that that is a Sparkfun part
   number.

   p9 “References” It seems like you should really work in a reference
   to our beloved Sen. Stevens somewhere since you pay homage to him in the
   title :-)

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)



------------------------ Submission 2320, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

   5  (Definite accept: I would argue strongly for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary and Contribution

   The paper describes a new technique for 3D printing interactive artifacts
   by embedding tubes into the printed objects. It contributes the idea
   itself, the design space of "tube-based" techniques, explores
   fabrication-technology specific aspects and demonstrates the technique in
   a series of example objects.

The Review (entered before the rebuttal period, and uneditable thereafter)

   I really enjoyed reading this paper. It develops a novel idea that
   greatly expands the space of interactive objects that can be produced on
   3D printers. The idea is developed holistically: starting from a simple
   idea, expanding to a well-motivated and non-trivial design space, and
   demonstrating the concepts applicability across different 3D printing
   technologies and application examples. The authors continuously expand
   and reapply previous concepts and embed it very well into the body of
   existing work. I find this novel and exciting work, which greatly extends
   what we can with 3D printers.

   The goal of this work to extend the range of things that can be
   fabricated using a particular kind of digital fabrication. Laser Origami
   (Mueller et al., CHI 2013) and "Printing Teddy Bears" (Scott E Hudson,
   CHI 2014) are in the same spirit and should be cited. The only thing I
   can critique really, is referring to Wikipedia as authority (regarding
   the "Route Inspection Problem" and "Fleury's algorithm"). Please cite the
   original sources.

   As this technique would be clearly beneficial to practitioners, I would
   be interested to know if there are plans to make this Meshmixer extension
   available for 3rd parties?

   In conclusion, this is a very well written paper that is easy to follow
   and presents a novel technique that will benefit many communities, HCI in
   particular (this paper tackles the HCI problem of letting users design
   tubes, as well as easing the fabrication of interactive prototypes).
   Overall, this work is a solid contribution, and recommend to accept the
   paper. 

Additional review comments (entered after the start of rebuttal period)




